# Heart-Disease-Prediction

Abstract
Day by day the cases of heart diseases are increasing at a rapid rate and it's very Important and concerning to predict any such diseases beforehand. This diagnosis is a difficult task i.e. it should be performed precisely and efficiently. The research paper mainly focuses on which patient is more likely to have a heart disease based on various medical attributes. We prepared a heart disease prediction system to predict whether the patient is likely to be diagnosed with a heart disease or not using the medical history of the patient. We used different algorithms of machine learning such as logistic regression and KNN to predict and classify the patient with heart disease. A quite Helpful approach was used to regulate how the model can be used to improve the accuracy of prediction of Heart Attack in any individual. The strength of the proposed model was quiet satisfying and was able to predict evidence of having a heart disease in a particular individual by using KNN and Logistic Regression which showed a good accuracy in comparison to the previously used classifier such as naive bayes etc. So a quiet significant amount of pressure has been lift off by using the given model in finding the probability of the classifier to correctly and accurately identify the heart disease. The Given heart disease prediction system enhances medical care and reduces the cost. This project gives us significant knowledge that can help us predict the patients with heart disease It is implemented on the.pynb format.


Heart diseases is a term covering any disorder of the heart. Heart diseases have become a major concern to deal with as studies show that the number of deaths due to heart diseases have increased significantly over the past few decades in India, in fact it has become the leading cause of death in India.

A study shows that from 1990 to 2016 the death rate due to heart diseases have increased around 34 per cent from 155.7 to 209.1 deaths per one lakh population in India.

Thus preventing Heart diseases has become more than necessary. Good data-driven systems for predicting heart diseases can improve the entire research and prevention process, making sure that more people can live healthy lives. This is where Machine Learning comes into play. Machine Learning helps in predicting the Heart diseases, and the predictions made are quite accurate.
